---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

Week three was slightly shorter due to family obligations, but progress was still made. The distributions of the experimental data were visualized to better understand what methods would be appropriate for determining preliminary norms.

Just shy of 100 hours have been dedicated to the project. Key points have included:

1. Understanding the greater research context of this balance and posturography question
2. Researching pose estimation software and licensing as it relates to academic vs. commercial use
3. Working with a shared repo for the first time
4. Setting up an environment to duplicate the one my advisor uses for ease of development
5. Architecting and writing code that allows for easy and uniform figure editing and initial data visualization

The most exciting part of this has been everything, of course. What has stood out most is a clear trend in the literature. There is a need for balance assessment tools that are both clinically accessible and able to capture more detailed information about postural control. I am specifically thinking of an article by Horak et al. from 1997, where they conclude that more research is needed to develop clinical assessments and that new technology has the potential to measure changes that were previously too small to observe. In my mind, this also means making new connections between changes that were previously too difficult to synthesize. This is a real need that the SteadiSystem project is addressing.

My better understanding of this need to visualize posture, balance, force, and reaction time as part of a measurable system has generated real excitement on my part to dig into the data we have collected. Having initiated a pipeline for visualizing the data, editing the plotting efficiently thanks to DRY principles, and exploring preliminary norms has helped this project come to life.
